Feature/merge strategies (#8)
mftenergy/Gitting-comfortable: slidedeck/slides.md

Combining branches

When a change has been completed on a branch it is ready to be included in `main`. Combining two branches is refered to a *merging*. 
Before we dive into *how* to do it, it is important to talk about *when*. 

Ideally are branches short lived.
This means that we should strive to get meaningfull changes merged back into `main` as quickly as possilbe.
A good rule of thumb is that branches should not live for more than two days.
In reallity, this can be difficult to always do, but it is a good compass, none the less. 

Following our previous branch we can now go back to main
<v-switch>
<template #1>
```mermaid
gitGraph
   commit id: "initial"
   branch feature/show-branching
   commit id: "first-feature-change"
   commit id: "another-change"
```
 </template>
<template #2>
```mermaid
gitGraph
   commit id: "initial"
   branch feature/show-branching
   commit id: "first-feature-change"
   commit id: "another-change"
   checkout main
   commit id: "main-first-feature"
   commit id: "main-another-change"
   merge feature/show-branching
```
 </template>
</v-switch>

---

# Working with merges / rebasing - in realtion to Pull-Requests

<v-switch>
<template #1>

> A Pull-Request is a term used on a git server to faciliate the process of raising a merge from a branch to a target branch, such as a feature branch to main. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pull-Request is the process of raising awareness about a merge from a branch to a target branch, such as a feature branch to main. <br>
```

The Pull-Request facilitates things like dicsussions, change requests to edits, diff views, approvals etc - more on this later.

But most importantly it faciliates what happens when a Pull-Request is completed
</template>

<template #2>
There exists different methods of completing a Pull-Request;

1. No fast-foward
1. Fast-forward
1. Squash commit
1. Rebase with fast-foward or merge commit

</template>

<template #3>

**No fast-forward** is the method of not rewriting history and simply adding on top of the target branch.

```mermaid
gitGraph
  commit id: "1"
  branch feature/1
  commit id: "2"
  checkout main
  merge feature/1
```

</template>

<template #4>

> **Fast-foward** is the method of rewriting target branch to represent a linear history of events. In below graph you see a merge where the merged point is highlighted and represent a duplicate of the commit with id 2 that happened on the feature branch. If a git log is corretly drawn after the impact of the merge, the branch `feature/implement` will no longer be present.

Reviewer: Is the removal not always a separate step (regardless of merge strategy)

```mermaid
gitGraph
  commit id: "1"
  branch feature/implement
  commit id: "2"
  checkout main
  merge feature/implement id: "duplicate_2" type: HIGHLIGHT
```

</template>

<template #5>

> **Squash commit** is the method of squashing all your commits that happened on the feature branch to a single commit on the target. This method is much like fast-forward in the sense that the existence of the feature branch will be gone after the merge is complete. This method creates a very clean linear git history.

Reviewer: Same as above

```mermaid
gitGraph
  commit id: "Init"
  branch squash-mr
  commit id: "commit 1"
  commit id: "commit 2"
  checkout main
  merge squash-mr id: "squashed commit" type: HIGHLIGHT
```

</template>

<template #6>

> **Rebase** A rebase strategy works a in a sense reverse to how regular merges does. Instead of adding on top of the target branch, rebase tages each commit on the feature branch and merges one by one with the differences that happened on main since the feature branch got created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rebase** A rebase strategy works a in a sense reverse to how regular merges does. Instead of adding on top of the target branch, rebase takes each commit on the feature branch and merges one by one with the differences that happened on main since the feature branch got created.
```

  branch feature/rebase
  commit id: "_commit main"
  commit id: "rebased commit 1"
  commit id: "rebased commit 2"
  checkout main
  commit id: "commit main"
```

</template>

<template #8>
Rebase and merge
<br>

```mermaid
gitGraph
  commit id: "Init"
  commit id: "commit main"
  commit id: "rebased commit 1"
  commit id: "rebased commit 2"
```

</template>

<template #9>

For more information on read the following topics;

1. [Merging vs Rebasing](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing#:~:text=Integrating%20an%20approved%20feature&text=However%2C%20by%20performing%20a%20rebase,added%20during%20a%20pull%20request.)
1. [Git merge](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches/git-merge)

</template>

</v-switch>

---

# Video on git merge / rebase

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0chZFIZLR_0?si=wXEsqrpC528IVvkj" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

# Working with merges / rebasing - in realtion to local git

<v-switch>

> <template #1>

Reviewer: Maybe make the strategy in these slides bold or something. I think it takes some effort to see how we are trying to merge

It is not just at the git server we need to do merges / rebasing. These also happen locally, usually in order to synchronize a feature branch with changes from main before you create a pull request.

You can use the same methods as mentioned above locally, however there are a few rule-of-thumb's that we want to introduces: 
</template>

<template #2>

Pull newest changes of main into your feature branch with fast-forward strategy. This is the safest and cleanest method next to rebase

```bash
git checkout feature/branch
git pull origin main --ff
```

</template>

<template #3>

Pull newest changes of main into your feature branch with rebase strategy. You can use this in-case fast-foward fails or you need to be more in control wil merge conflicts

```bash
git checkout feature/branch
git pull origin main --rebase
```

</template>

<template #4>

Pull newest changes of main into your feature branch with rebase strategy. You can use this in-case fast-foward fails or you need to be more in control wil merge conflicts

```bash
git checkout feature/branch

> git fetch omain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git fetch main
```

---

# Stashing changes

Git stashing is the method of saving your unstaged work for a later point. Often it can be used to save work in order to do a `git pull` or if you made changes on a branch that should not have been done from that revision.

Git stash works as a LIFO queue (last in - first out), where if you run `git stash push` then an entry is put into the cue with the current stages and unstaged changes. If you then run `git stash pop` then the edits you just put int op the queue are "popped" from the queue and the edits are present again.

```bash
git stash list # will list the current queue of stashed entries
git stash push # will push current edits into a stash entry for the queue
git stash list # Should now have a single entry in it
git stash pop # will remove the entry from the queue and apply the edits again in the local repo
```

---

# Time to do exercises!

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a link to a cheat-sheet?

NOTE: There is a cheatsheet at the bottom of the README.md in the root of the repository.

You have two option;

1. **recommended** [Run in google cloud spaces (free)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https://github.com/mftenergy/git-course.git)
1. Run everything locally, if you choose that then read: [https://github.com/mftenergy/Gitting-comfortable/blob/main/setup-git/README.md](setup-git)

---

> # What is Slidev? asdasd test

Reviewer: Delete the rest of the file from here
